BMW s1000rr this is what you know is
everyone's kind of dream track bike at
the moment nearly 200 horsepower
traction control everything you could
want for riding around the track fast
but is it it is unless you're 15 16
years old
maybe you're riding a 50 cc scooter
maybe you're thinking about getting that
first kind of geared bike making that
step from push bike to scooter to prop a
road bike I think something like this is
great but for those guys it's it's kind
of stuck on the wall isn't it it's so
hard to get to this 200 horsepower thing
because it cost loads of money the
licensing thing in the UK at the minute
is in my opinion it's so tough to get to
a proper body but some people have just
given up before even gets tough and it
yes it's really hard to get to something
like this so you need somewhere between
the ultimate this is your Ferrari you
need your Vauxhall Corsa you need your
your mid-range bike and we just try to
kind of starting to see them now again
there was a bit of a lull for a long
time in sort of lower middle weight
capacity bikes and now we're seeing you
know KTM bought out the Duke 390 they've
just launched the RC 390 sports bike
Kawasaki got the Ninja 300 there's these
few bikes kind of creeping in in that
mid capacity classes I'll put money on
that we're going to see them from Yamaha
probably Aundre as well before long
they're gonna they're going to come so
the great thing about having bikes like
the Ninja 300 and the RC 390 is that
we're starting to see these one-make
challenges creep into programs like
British Superbike Championship where we
can want shakey and Josh Brooks and all
the guys riding the big bikes around but
at the other end of the timetable you've
got things like ninja 300 challenge and
the RC 390 Cup which we're going to see
in BSB I think in 2015 unless the plan
yeah yeah definitely and it's and it's a
stepping stone I mean in pure race terms
you know you start out on your little
budget one to five production bikes
frillier are responsive other super
teens as the championship has been
running for years Casey Stoner some
bloke who came out of that is pretty
quick
chaz davies Danny Ken Rogers space
Astana lies I never beat Casey Stoner I
would definitely are a t-shirt saying
that if I had you overtaking never I
rode on the same track that he said a
lot
around here hands take it Matt gosh no
so there's you know there's these little
series that come through and there's
always kind of been like this this step
from the entry point into six hundreds
and a 600cc sports bike these days is
130 brake horsepower yeah more
importantly aside from the power which
is one aspect of it it just seems to be
the price when you're telling me about
the the racing that you used to do the
amount of money that you seem to tip
into tires engine refreshes all that
kind of stuff that's why I can't afford
a haircut get in before you do it ah
threw me nailed me in terms of you know
people who are maybe in their 20s and
looking at getting a sports bike for
track days it's so much temptation to
leap straight to these and we've done
loads of stuff in in the magazine saying
about 600 750 s which is the best thing
and actually you really can't beat a bit
of time served on a 40 horsepower or
less bike because there's nothing that
teaches you how to get through a corner
quicker than a slow bike do these these
things you know you if you get into a
corner slow on one of these it does not
matter you can go in whatever speed you
like by the time you're at the apex
especially the trash control on the BMW
you just pin the throw and the thing
fires itself out you don't need to be
good you just need to trust the traction
that's that's this guy but what we do
have today is an RC 390 Cup bike yep
which we're hoping is going to be part
the support series for BSB in 2015 we're
also lucky enough to have Steve Jordan's
lovely Kawasaki at 300 and injure cut
bike so we're gonna go out and take a
look at the bikes and talk later pow
I've just been out for another run on
them into Steve made some changes to the
rebound damping on the rear note-taking
rebound knocking off the rear and a bit
of pre though just Sport Shop feels a
lot better and of highlight it's one of
these things with these lightweight
bikes is no hitter change on the
suspension huge difference come away
from where the bike feels in handles
they're just just humped up there 390 as
awesome as like there's like a little
mini GB bikes it's real tall and
definitely better the cow exactly the
chassis feels a lot more or less less
movement good wobbling around the time
motors different to the engine being the
single thing on this is got more low-end
cows backing twin is a little bit more
ready to this on the on the corners
where you haven't quite got the gear
perfect for the track you can drive out
from the mid-range calls on the Benedict
book over
fabulous one upsetting people on big
bikes
okay superbike top drums on the Ninja
300 the KTM rc390 who gets to go first
rock-paper-scissors
one two three one two three I'll go
first in right power 38 bhp 37 one mill
1 mill to the KPA price on the grid
going racing 7 gram new when I'm seven
and a half fish wait what's the weight I
think with this one it looks like the
series is going to run 1 3 4 at any time
any time that you saw where a boat wet
some wet somewhere not fully wet semi
we're one for one for two or fully wet
pretty wet
how BIG's a fuel tank on this wait
what's better more way or less right
it's really more ways better cuz then
you can push people away with it no I'm
gonna say less ways good - one - one
you're cool
top speed top speed 125 miles an hour I
think you would probably just pick this
just by for Monday I got this
Oh Forks I've got upside down Red Bull
rookie spec Forks we got give me five
minutes and I can have upside down forks
so I'm calling the same on internals but
you I've got upset alcohols okay or
three it can be go then looks looks just
gotta be the next one baby Tom Sykes
it's a baby Tom Sykes
but this is a baby I see a I'm a hater
beer but I won't come on the KTM thing
it looks better i'm sorry i'm a bad
person kawasaki but I do think the
kitchen looks better
what are they what as it was that best
day best don't work ever
I don't know people at home will realize
that I don't race I don't have the same
background as you I'm a road rider
I'm a track day rider bass groove track
day guy I found with the KTM it felt
more like a road bike that was that I
was used to how did you find you you
adapted because because obviously that's
the big thing with these is that it's
all about corner speed I mean happening
yes loads of fun do you think you've got
something to take out yeah you're gonna
sing you know when you're seeing bikes
like these going past now and you've got
a thousand hours gathering you down the
stray and then you're reeling them in on
the way down paddock hill man that's a
brilliant feeling I love that but what I
struggled with was the areas where
normally a big power bite with traction
control would glaze over the cracks of
my riding skill there was nowhere to
hide on this thing so when you're
getting it a gear wrong on these or
you're touching the brakes a tiny bit
too early you're caring a little bit too
much gas it's just high it just shows it
all the straightaway
so you know there's definitely nowhere
to hide on these things there is
sometimes somewhere to hide on this
truck going past and then you have to
carry on and no I'll ended up in that
yeah a win that's a win every day will
make you pick a bike how was your day
anything from a 600 up point out words
these days
a quick lap time is about corner active
pretty much yeah there's a Liz elements
everywhere that everyone's running
through but you all your work in the
corner is always to get ensure a good
exit so you get drive onto the straight
so for me it always feels like you're
compromising the bit we enjoy that going
through the corner to try and get past
around where
please there's none of that is how fast
can you go around that corner from
self-defense with your knee on the floor
bouncing over the curves and it's kind
of like a douche bag now this is a bit
pure well you hate me always it's kind
of pure it's that very very commanding
through the bone so I loved it for that
both bikes because of the championships
they run in there on road legal tires
yeah so we're talking you know not super
sport rubber we're talking quite hard
compound tires so for me I was kind of
wanting a bit more grip yeah I want that
that real big lean angle but let that
frustrated me but aside from that limit
fantastic the KTM had a bit more
mid-range drove off the corners better
the ninja you know had a bit more rev
range
yeah and longer roads because a twin and
so full day on the bikes pick one no you
pick one all right also Kawasaki on the
wall
KJ on the road I love the look in the
Kawasaki I love everything about it
it makes it makes me imagine that if I
was 17 I think I was Tom Sykes every
time I got out the go I'm gonna go I'm
gonna rub my microphone with my hat
that's what I'm gonna do okay so I would
definitely go with the KTM chassis and
styling because I'm a child and I like
you pull edgy styling my child only and
I'm gonna go with the quote from the
Kawasaki yes the KTM had the punch for
the cards a key just let that spread
that when you've not got a lot of power
it's nice not to be hitting the limit
yeah yeah definitely